So now what we're going to do is our final step for this edit, which is the color correction and the
color grading process.
Now, there's really a few main reasons we're doing this.
We're doing this to correct any mistakes in exposure that our camera may have had when filming our footage.
We want to fix these mistakes so that there's a clean look and a similar look across all the clips in
our timeline, in our video.
So nothing looks out of bounds.
Nothing looks out of place.
Right.
That's something that's not professional, that as soon as someone sees that, they instantly have a
opinion about the level of quality of the video.
So we first want to start by fixing any of those issues.
Once we do that, we go into the color grading phase where we can then create a layer of stylizing on
top of our footage that makes it look unique.
So we're going to get into the basics of that.
And later, in other more complex edits, we'll get even more into detail on creating a specific look.
So let's get into it.
What I'm going to do first is mute our music, because we have our video locked.
We're not making any more edits or changes on our cuts, on our pacing, on adding any cool little visual
transitions or updates.
That's not what this process is about.
All of those should be done by the time you get to this color correction and color grading process.
So I'm going to mute our music to smoothly scrub through our timeline without any distractions, were
just purely focusing on visuals.
So I can instantly see that the blacks and what I've been saying is blacks and dark's every image that
you shoot is made up of contrast between the color.
It's not a color dark, but it's a quality of dark black.
Right.
There's black behind me.
There's white here.
And the image is made up of different ratios between the black and the white.
And that combination creates everything that you're seeing.
And then there's color as well.
We have blue, we have orange.
We have a green green here as well.
All those are making up our image.
So in this step, we want to balance out those different aspects of our edit.
Now, here, I can see that the way the camera was exposing, because I was shooting on an iPhone,
I wasn't shooting manually.
The camera is trying to do its best to expose.
But the contrast and the level at which the dark sorat in this image looks really good to my eye.
If we go here, that same black of the camera is quite a bit lighter.
That means the exposure is higher.
So here the blacks look nice here.
The blacks look kind of gray.
OK, so we're going to fix that.
We're going to highlight our clip when we go to the effects tab.
And we're going to type in luminary color or whatever color correction effect that you're editing software
uses.
And we can either double click or click and drag it onto the clip that we want to apply it to open up
the basic effects tab.
And here we have our exposure, which adjusts the brightness of all of the image.
We have our contrast, which crushes the blacks and increases the whites.
OK.
We have our highlights, which just increases the whites.
We have our shadows, which just increases or decreases.
The dark part of the frame.
And we have our whites and blacks, which does a very, very similar thing to what the highlights and
the shadows do.
It's very similar.
I don't really use the whites and blacks per se, because, look, if we increase the shadows here and
get this look and do the same thing here, there is no you can't tell the difference.
So I just work with the highlights and shadows.
So let's start by decreasing the shadows to try and get a similar exposure on our camera and on the
skin tone of our subject.
OK, that's starting to look a lot better, let's even go down negative 40.
And now these clips are matching up a lot better if I undo our color correction layer.
That's the original and that's what we're working with now.
So I'm pretty happy with that.
Let's move to the next shot.
The cool thing that we can do is if we have two very similar shots that need the same color treatment,
we can simply copy by selecting the color correction layer that we want to do command see highlighting
the clip we want to apply it to and hit command V to paste.
That's one way to do it.
The other way to do it is to right click the clip that has the layer that we want to use it copy.
Go to the click.
We want to assign that same exact layer to and hit paste attributes.
Now, here's where we were kind of working with before about copying and pasting the motion of a different
clip.
We don't want to change the motion and positioning of the clip.
We purely just want to apply the colouring effect.
So that is the second way to do that process.
OK.
These are all looking good.
I think that these last few clips here could use a little bit darker dark's similar to what we did here.
So I'm going to go ahead and paste what we did by copying and hitting paste on this first clip to see
what it does.
OK.
I think that's a little bit too dark.
These didn't need quite as much of it, so I'm gonna do half do negative 20.
OK, that's looking pretty good.
So now that I know that looks good, I'm now going to copy this new one with negative 20 instead of
negative 10.
I'm going to highlight the rest of the clips that I know need updating.
I'm going to hit paste.
And let's check out the edit.
OK, that's looking pretty good.
We've called corrected the clips in our sequence.
And now it's time to add a cool looking stylizing to all the clips.